# Tools and processes

The sections on this page show examples of my skills in the areas of
tools and processes.

## Docs as code

The following sections show some examples of what I can do with
Docs-As-Code tools, github versioning and deployment, Docusaurus,
Jekyll, and Sphinx.

### Github site example

To further demonstrate my capabilities to work with modern developer doc
tools, I used github to build, edit, version, and deploy this portfolio
site that you are currently viewing.

### Docusaurus example

I\'ve also created a [separate portfolio
site](https://lookatthem-tech.github.io/DocusaurusPortfolio/)
to demonstrate my capabilities with writing, editing, styling (CSS),
building, and deploying Docusaurus sites. I store and version my
Docusaurus content in github, where I also host the site. At this time,
the Docusaurus portfolio includes only a subset of content from this
full portfolio that you\'re currently viewing.

### Jekyll example

I\'ve also built an example of a developer style of site with Jekyll. I
built the site in a github repo and hosted it on github pages. You can
see it
[here](https://lookatthem-tech.github.io/jekyll-project-03/index.html).

### Madcap Flare example

If you use Madcap Flare to create your Help content, you might also want
to use Flare to create and maintain your API documentation. Here are two
API reference examples that I created with Flare. I then built and
hosted them in a github repo.

- You can see an example with a two-column format
  [here](https://lookatthem-tech.github.io/ApiDocsInFlare/Output/ryan_/HTML5/Content/RRTest.htm).

- You can see an example with a three-column format
  [here](https://lookatthem-tech.github.io/ApiDocsInFlare/Output/ryan_/HTML5/Content/RRApiReference3Col.htm).

To fit the requirements of one company, I created a large API
documentation set that I published simultaneously (content reuse in
multiple channels) to a Madcap Flare site and a Zendesk Guide Help site.
The following links show you two of those pages:

- [Geolocations API](DpGeolocation.htm)

- [Sensors API](StSensors11.3.1.htm)

### Sphinx site example

I have a similar portfolio site that I built with sphinx to demonstrate
what I can do with that tool.

> **Note:** I haven't hosted this site anywhere yet. But I'll be happy to show it to
anyone who asks!


## Zendesk theme development

To meet company needs for publishing content to various locations and
formats for various purposes, I learned to publish from Madcap Flare
into Zendesk (while publishing the same content into other sites from
Flare). I also learned to import and export content via Zendesk\'s API
and other methods.

I am also well-versed in developing Zendesk themes (with .hbs and .css)
and then publishing and maintaining these themes for Zendesk Guide and
Zendesk Gather (Community).

![](../../Resources/Images/ZendeskTheme.png)